# Kickstarting with Excel Ð Module Challenge 1 Devon Gillispie Cohort T/TH Class 9/19/21## Overview of Project Ð LouiseÕs is a up and coming playwriter that wants to start a crowdfunding campaign to help fund her play, Fever. She is hesitated to jump into first funding campaign and has turned to me for help in organizing, sorting, and analyzing crowdfunding data to see if whether there are specific factors to make her project campaign successful and see how the different campaigns fared in relation to launch dates and funding goals.        ### Purpose Ð To visualize the campaign outcomes based on launch dates and funding goals. I will analyze and show 3 deliverables that will display launch date outcomes, funding goals outcomes, and a written analysis of results. This will help gain a greater understanding in seeing how areas fared against or similar to each other. ## Analysis and Challenges### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch DateOrganize and sort launch date into a column (Column U) with heading ÒYearsÓ to show the dates the plays were created/launched by year. Function =Year() was used in cell U2 with data derived from column Date Ended Conversion (data converted date with Unix timestamps formula =(((J2/60)/60)/24)+DATE(1970, 1,1)from initial date of data 1/1/1970. Using data derived from ÒDate Ended ConversionÓ column, entered function =Year(S2) meaning pulled data from row 2, column S into row 2, column U then dragged cross down to apply to all cells in column U.Visual: Analysis Ð count of theaters is 1394 with launched date in years between 2010 to 2017After input and display launch dates by year, created pivot table to organize and analyze data of theater outcomes by month and year then tweak the view by filtering data showing numbers of success, failed, and canceled shows in fields. Installation: 	PivotTable Fields	Filters Ð Parent Category and Years (allows filter down to 	theater category and specific years) 	Rows Ð Date Created Conversion (allows to show months in 	rows; group the ÒRow LabelsÓ column required to show months 	of year by right clicking on year 2009, select Group, box 	auto populates with Starting at Ô2009Õ and Ending at 	Ô2017Õfields and By: field select Months then press OK) 	Columns Ð outcomes	Values Ð count of outcomes Visual:Next, filter ÒParent CategoryÓ down to ÒtheaterÓ, sort campaign outcomes in descending order to display ÒsuccessfulÓ first.Visual:Analysis: PivotTable shows more successful outcomes (839) versus failed (493) and canceled (37). More successes noted in month of May (111) and June (100) over span of 7 years (2010 Ð 2017).Next Steps: create a pivot chart to show visualization using a line graph displaying trend in outcomes. Installation: Click anywhere on pivot table, select pivot chart analyze at top on toolbar, then select the Design tab on toolbar, then to right on toolbar is change chart type, select line, 2D for line graph display. Return to the Design tab and click Add Chart Element on left of toolbar. Text box with chart title appears to add a title name. Title ÒTheater Outcomes vs Launch MonthsÓ added to top of line chart then saved. To save image as png (theater_outcomes_vs_launch.png), select chart by clicking anywhere then right click and select Òsave as pictureÓAnalysis: Line graph shows peak in successful outcomes in May then dips in increments slowly for remainder of months. Failed outcomes had a peak in months of May then stayed around same numbers with dip in months of September and peak again in months of October. Canceled outcomes of shows stayed around the same numbers and live theater shows peaked in months of March then showed no data after months of April. Shows trends that the campaign potentially may be good in months of April, May, and June (Spring/Summertime). This shows a prediction based on outcomes from 2010. To 2017. ### Analysis of Outcomes Based on GoalsDescription: Need to visualize the percentage of successful, failed, and canceled plays based on funding goal amount. Use function COUNTIFS() for collecting outcome and goal data for ÒplaysÓ subcategory. Change format of data in column to add input and create chart save as a png.Implementation: create new sheet name ÒOutcomes Based on GoalsÓAdd Columns Ð goal, number successful, number failed, number canceled, total projects, percentage successful, percentage failed, and percentage canceled.	ÒGoalÓ column Ð input dollar amount ranges-based projects goal 	amount. Use function COUNTIFS(). Diagram retrieved from Module 1 	Excel Challenge instructions.Use function COUNTIFS()to populate the "Number Successful," "Number Failed," and "Number Canceled" columns by filtering on the Kickstarter "outcome" column, on the "goal" amount column using the ranges created in Step 3, and on the "Subcategory" column using Òplays" as the criteria.Implementation: I entered the following function into a new sheet from Starterbook data sheet by retrieving data from ÒgoalsÓ columns, filtered ÒoutcomeÓ column to ÒsuccessfulÓ and ÒfailedÓ categories and filter ÒsubcategoryÓ column to ÒplaysÓ. I used the following formulas for Ònumber successfulÓ (all goals data, outcomes-successful, subcategory-plays from starterbook sheet) and Ònumber failedÓ (all goals data, outcomes-failed, subcategory-plays from Starterbook sheet) columns in Outcomes Based on Goals sheet. I applied goal ranges to each cell as followsÉVisuals:I repeated this pattern to row 13 with making changes to range parameters per goal column A.Starterbook show goals with subcategory-plays did not have any canceled plays. Entered 0 value for column D Number Canceled.Implementation: Use SUM()function to populate ÒTotal ProjectsÓ column to add up the number of successful, failed, and canceled projects on each row using the code below than copy and drag cross to input sum values on spreadsheet for each cell.Visual:Next, calculated the percentage of successful, failed, and canceled projects for each row by using function =ROUND(CELL COLUMN,ROW/CELL COLUMN,ROW)*100,0)=ROUND -tells will use round formula(CELL COLUMN,ROW/CELL COLUMN,ROW)- specified which cells data will be used in formula (e.g., B2/E2 Ð 141/186=0.7580É)*100-multiples result by 100 to give the percentage as a whole number (e.g., B2/E2 Ð 141/186=0.7580 x 100=76%)0)-specify how many numbers to display after decimal; this shows no numbers to display after decimalThis formula is applied to each cell for percentage successful, then to percentage failed column. The percentage canceled is 0 since there were no canceled projects.Next, created a PivotTable with PivotChart visually displaying trends using line graph showing sum of percentage successful, sum of percentage failed, and sum of percentage canceled on y-axis in addition to goal amount ranges in percentages on x-axis.### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered	#### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date		*Challenge encounter Ð I identified the date ended 			conversion column did not have the correct Unix 			timestamps formula (missing /60 after (((J2/60)) causing 		me to check and run the formula again to get the correct 		data by years in column U. Also, must ensure the cell 		is format in date version versus general version. 	### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals			*Challenge encounter - for COUNTIFS() function: if you 		do not have the starterbook cells in a specific order 		along with location of data in quotations (e.g., Ò>=1000Ó 		to Ò<=4999Ó the formula presented an error message. 		Also, if you copy and paste the formula from column Ò		Ònumber successfulÓ to Ònumber failedÓ as a shortcut 		method, ensure the value in formula ÒsuccessfulÓ is 		changed to ÒfailedÓ or will get an incorrect number 		value in the cells. Correct formula noted below. 			*Overcame challenge by using google search for 			instructions and watched multiple YouTube videos and 		videos noted in challenge (multiple times)and trial/error 		with moving parts around in the formula)		*Challenge encounter Ð unable to apply a percentage sign 		symbol to PivotChart Line graph x-axis data. Tried to 		right click and change format from general to percentage 		but received this ÉI tried to change the formula but kept getting an error message saying too few arguments present in formula. I tried to change the cell format from general to percentage but kept getting this É*Unsuccessful in overcoming this challenge after using google search, the things tried that are noted above did not work for me. Can you provide instructions on how to add percentages to show on PivotChart line graph?*Challenge encounter Ð I am not sure of the exact format needed for README.md info. I google searched this too but there are several options out there. Not sure if the length of this document is too long as well. Can you provide feedback Please?## Results- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?Analysis: Line graph shows peak in successful outcomes in May then dips in increments slowly for remainder of months. Failed outcomes had a peak in months of May then stayed around same numbers with dip in months of September and peak again in months of October. Canceled outcomes of shows stayed around the same numbers and live theater shows peaked in months of March then showed no data after months of April. Shows trends that the campaign potentially may be good in months of April, May, and June (Spring/Summertime). This shows a prediction based on outcomes from 2010. To 2017. - What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?A large number of successful projects with plays fell into the goal range of 1000-4999 (number was 388) however in this same range showed the highest number that failed (number was 146. With the successful percentage of 73% shows this is potentially a good range of goals to meet. The range of less than 1000 was significantly high as well (number was 141 showing the highest percentage successful value of 76%. The campaign outcomes definitely show favorable to number of successful projects with plays based on the funding goals. Maybe Louise can estimate a funding goal around these amounts for future plays. PivotChart line graph shows peak in range 1000 to 4999 then drops off with short peak in range of 3500 to 39999 then significant drop at 45000 to 49999 range with up and down peak and drop as ranges increased. Showed opposite with failed projects vs successful during certain ranges, as it should being there were no canceled projects in the plays subcategory.  - What are some limitations of this dataset?In general, excel is mostly 2 dimensional and limits ability to incorporate multiple variables at the same time. With use of pivot charts, can only see x y axis. Sometimes can be inadequate for use on financial data analysis or budge preparation. Trying to maneuver and keep spreadsheets in order was tasking when creating new sheets. Also, I did a lot of copy and pasting data which was time consuming. Maybe because I am not an expert in creating automated formulas, but copy/paste or rewriting formulas leaves room for errors.- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?Could have used bar graph (vertical or horizontal) to quickly measure the data being displayed and easily see comparison/relationship of outcomes by months. Successful outcomes are clearly leading the way of all other outcomes with peak in months of May. Failed outcomes in comparison to other months looks like numbers are pretty close with lowest numbers in March and November. Bar chart/graph would not be able to convey same info in showing trends as line chart/graph when telling the story.	Could of use box and whisker plots to visually identify any 	potential outliers, interquartile range, median, and mean.Sources used (to name a few):Pivot Tables with Chart on MAChttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-a-pivotchart-c1b1e057-6990-4c38-b52b-8255538e7b1c#OfficeVersion=macOShttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/group-or-ungroup-data-in-a-pivottable-c9d1ddd0-6580-47d1-82bc-c84a5a340725?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=usPercentageshttps://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/blog/2011/08/02/how-to-do-percentages-in-excel/https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49541589/calculated-fieldYEAR functionhttps://www.educba.com/year-in-excel/